# Association Network Inference 
<p>
A package for inferring biotic associations from species co-distributions, based on the paper: </br>
Si-moussi S, Galbrun E, Hedde M, Thuiller W. Inferring biotic associations by learning latent representations of species responses and effects from their co-distributions. Submitted to Methods in Ecology and Evolution. 
</p>

## Abstract
<p>
We propose an asymetric scheme for modeling ecological associations that is based on learning latent representations of species' responses and effects. We incorporate these associations into a conditional generative model of species abundances that also accounts for their habitat suitability and fit them using stochastic gradient descent. 
</p>

## List of content
This repository contains code for using the model directly in Python or in R (via reticulate)
<p>
- <i> ecoassocnet </i>: contains the source code.</br>  
- <i> doc </i>: contains the tutorials as well as examples of outputs on sample data.</br>
- <i> data </i>: contains the synthetic data generated by the <a href="https://github.com/SoccoCMOS/simcoms">simulation</a> experiment described in the abovementioned paper and used for evaluation:</br>
  - sim_exp: an Excel sheet containing a description of the simulation configuration.</br>
  - assocs: contains the association matrices input for the simulation. </br>
  - comms: contains the communities generated by the simulation model.</br>
</p> 

## Installation
<p>
It is recommended to use Anaconda (within a virtual environment) to install the dependencies.  
</p>

```
conda create -n venvname
activate venvname
```

The following dependencies are required, with preferable versions.
<p>
- Python==3.5+ </br>
- Pandas==0.0.2+ </br>
- Tensorflow==1.14 </br>
- Keras==2.2.4 </br>
- matplotlib==3.1.1 </br>
- seaborn==0.9.0 </br>
</p>


```
pip install -i https://test.pypi.org/simple/ ecoassocnetwork
``` 

## Tutorials
<p>
- To run the model from a Python environment: see <a href=./doc/Pytutorial/md/tuorial.md> Pytutorial </a> </br>
- To run the model from R: see <a href=./doc/Rtutorial/tutorial_R.rmd> Rtutorial </a> 
</p>
